Day 30: Introduction to database

Database is used to store data coming from frontend in the form of tables

Types of Database
1. Relational Database
2. Non-Relational Database

1. Relational Database are structured in the form of rows and tables
SQL is an example of Relational Database.
We use it when we have structured data to store in the database
We generally use Relational Database to store something like the user information


2. Non-Relational or NoSQL Database are like JSON objects.
MongoDB is an example of Non-Relational or NoSQL Database
We use it when we have a data that can vary or change to store in the database
We generally use Non-Relational or NoSQL Database to store something like social media post information

Day 36: Mongoose
Mongoose is a Node.js library that provides a straight-forward, schema-based solution to model your application data.
Mongoose is an Object Data Modeling (ODM) library for MongoDB, written in JavaScript.
Mongoose is used to connect to MongoDB.
Mongoose is used to create a schema and then it is used to create a model.


Day 37: Authentication Part 1 (Hashing Password)
Passwords are never saved in the same way as user typed in the password field in the frontend
They are first converted into gibberish collection of characters called 'hash' and then it is send to the database
For hashing the password, we generally use bcrypt library.
The hashing is done in the backend regardless of what database we are using. The only difference would be how to send
the the hashed password to the database. If it is MongoDB, different way would be used to send the hashed password,
if it is SQL then different method will be used to send the hashed password to the database. But bcrypt library will
be used to convert the password into hash characters.

Day 38: Authentication Part 2: JWT
JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard for securely transmitting information between parties as JSON object.
JWT is used to send the user information to the frontend.

Day 39: Protected Routes (Auth Middleware)
Protected routes are the routes that are only accessible to the user that is logged in.
An authMiddleware.js middleware file authenticates the user that is logged in to access the protected routes.